---
layout: project
title: Puquios
---

The project is located in the commune of La Higuera, nearly 130 km
northeast of La Serena, in the province of Elqui, Coquimbo region,
northern Chile.

The project consists of an open pit copper mine. The mineral is expected
to be processed using bacterial leaching has an estimated production of
15,000t/y copper cathodes.

The regional geology at the Puquios Project is characterised by an
assemblage of volcanic rocks with marine sedimentary rocks
intercalations belonging to the Bandurrias Group, of Lower Cretaceous
age. Upper Cretaceous to Upper Tertiary age Volcanoclastic rocks,
assigned to the Vi√±itas and Los Elquinos Formations, lie discordant over
these units. The package is intruded by batholitic plutonic rocks of
granodioritic composition. The ages range of emplacement from Lower
Cretaceous to Lower Tertiary age. Modern deposits correspond to gravel
and unconsolidated sands in terraces or that fill quebradas and are
Quaternary age.

Structurally these units are inserted in the western flank of the Main
Andes Cordillera in the area, and show intense deformation of the
Mesozoic sequences affected by folds and regional faults.

The District is characterised by outcrops of hydrothermal alteration
zones. Their gangue mineralogy defines the occurrence of advanced
argilic, quartz sericite, supergene argilic and propylitic assemblages,
that are associated with the contacts between the Mesozoic volcanic
sequences and the granodioritic intrusive rocks of the Lower Tertiary.

The Puquios deposit exhibits a reddish to brown colour anomaly at
surface, elongated in the E-W direction, with its major axis of about
1200 meters and its minor axis of 400 meters respectively. This colour
anomaly is closely related, temporally and spatially with the
emplacement of a intrusive complex of subvolcanic rocks, of porphyrytic
characteristics and variable composition, ranging from
monzogranodiorites to dacites, which during intrusion provoked different
stages of hydrothermal alteration and mineralization events. The contact
relationships, alteration characteristics, mineralization, and areal
distribution, permit to classify this kind of deposit as a Cu-Mo
Porphyry Copper Deposit of an Upper Cretaceous to Lower Tertiary age.

The gangue mineral assemblages, supergene and hydrothermal, suggest that
the alteration events present at the deposit consist of supergene
argillic, advanced argillic, late quartz sericite, early quartz
sericite, potassic (prograde, retrograde) and propylitic hydrothermal
alteration assemblages. Each of these events are characterised by
different gangue and ore mineral assemblages that occur in veinlets
and/or disseminated form. These assemblages constituted the environment
that controlled the later deposition and distribution of the gangue and
ore minerals of supergene origin.
