---
layout: project
title: Bajo El Durazno
---

(Source: MAA’s Internal Report)

![Bajo2.png](media/image01.png){width="3.8645833333333335in"
height="3.8541666666666665in"}

The Bajo El Durazo (BED) copper-gold project in Argentina is satellite
to the Bajo de la Alumbrera deposit, owned and operated by Minera
Alumbrera (MAA). It commenced stripping in November 2015.

The project and now mine is located in the Belen Departament, Hualfín
District, Catamarca province, 1,100km north west of Buenos Aires at an
altitude of 2,500m. Bajo El Durazno is also located within the volcanic
district of Farallón Negro in NW Argentina.

It is located about 6km to the North of the Bajo La Alumbrera mine, and
10km E-NE of the Farallón Negro mine, and at a straight line distance of
1km north of MAA’s concentrate plant.

The Bajo El Durazno project outcrops in a topographic depression,
consisting of the differential erosion of the various alteration halos
that form the deposit. It is associated to intrusive phases of
intermediate facies of dioritic-andesitic composition. The alteration
model presents a hydrothermal alteration event with a potassic
alteration core that gradually changes outwards into a FDA alteration.
In its peripheral zone we found argillic and epidote-chlorite facies.

The dioritic intrusives main stock and the alteration halo associated
are stretched in a northeast-southwest direction. In a transversal
direction from this northeast-southwest direction, three breccias zones
are located subsequent to the dioritic dikes (P4), considered
post-mineral.

The geological mapping and the geological evidence and exposed grades
along with the drilling program carried out, allows the delineation of
two types of mineralization. One is associated to a Cu-Au porphyry type
system where the magma location and its subsequent hydrothermal
activity, has caused an intense fracturing, generating stockworks with
various types of veins. The second type of mineralization with a high
Au/Cu ratio is associated to magmatic-hydrothermal breccias, where the
brecciation is preferably due to the violent release of fluids from the
stocks in cooling process, causing various brecciation and hydraulic
fracturing events, subsequent to the post-mineral P4 dioritic dikes.
