---
layout: project
title: Balabag
---

(Source: NI 43-101 Technical Report)

![bal\_location.jpg](media/image01.jpg){width="5.864583333333333in"
height="4.822916666666667in"}

The Balabag deposit contains gold mineralization typical of
low-sulphidation epithermal vein-type deposits, and is characterized by
quartz veining, which exhibit a en echelon pattern and silica
replacement. The veins tend to develop within andesitic and dacitic
volcanic and fine-grained laminated tuffs. Also, stockworks of quartz
veins and veinlets are present in some areas, the mineralization is
believed to be coeval with the intrusion of hypabyssal rocks consisting
andesite and dacite porphyries.

The Balabag property has a total area of almost 4,800 hectares, and is
located within the Municipalities of Bayog, Zamboanga Del Sur and
Zamboanga Sibugay Province, Island of Mindanao, Philippines.

Zamboanga City, the most important urban center in the peninsula, is
accessed from Manila by plane, after approximately an 80 minute flight.
From there, access to the property is by a 5-hour drive via the
all-weather Zamboanga–Dipolog national highway passing through a sealed
road from Imelda town to Barangay Guinoman, Municipality of Diplahan in
Zamboanga Sibugay Province. Balabag can be reached by an 2 hour-long
ride from the paved road along the Depore river, including a trail that
borders rice fields and also runs on an old logging road.

The topography is moderately rolling to semi-rugged. Towards the western
section of the area, elevations range from 200 to 928 meters above mean
sea level (AMSL). The area is drained by the southeasterly flowing
headwaters of the Kabasalan and Palandoc Rivers. The higher elevations
are vegetated with secondary forest growth, cogon and grasses while the
lower elevations are cultivated for agricultural crops.

Geologically, the Mindanao peninsula is bounded to the west by the
Eurasian Plate being subducted southeastward into the Sulu Trench, and
on the east by the Philippine Sea Plate being subducted westward into
the Philippine Trench

This complexity is increased in Zamboanga (West Mindanao) by the
NE-subducting Cotabato trench that is expressed on-land as a collision
zone along the Cotabato-Sindangan Fault, which is believed to connect
northwestward to the Negros Trench (Acharya and Aggarwal, 1981). This
tectonic setting has produced three distinct rock-stratigraphic
assemblages in West Mindanao, namely: (a) “SW- Zamboanga Zone”, (b)
“Cotabato-Sindangan Collision Zone and”, (c) “NE - Zamboanga Zone”
(Flores, 1999).

The SW – Zamboanga Zone consists of a generally NE-trending and
relatively older suite of rock-stratigraphic units. These include the
pre-Tertiary basement complex consisting of Triassic Schists and other
metamorphics, Jurassic Granites, Cretaceous Ultramafics and Ophiolitic
Rocks, and Paleocene to Eocene Sediments. Oligocene to Miocene sediments
and volcanics unconformably overlie the basement complex. Miocene
intrusive and hypabyssal rocks intrude the pre-existing rocks. The
youngest sequences comprise Quaternary volcanics and finally a young
cover of Quaternary sediments, alluvium and terrace gravel.

The Cotabato-Sindangan Collision Zone is characterized mostly by
NW-trending braided or anastomosing sinistral faults and
similarly-trending litho-stratigraphic units. Rock suites comprise
Cretaceous ultramafics and ophiolitic rocks, Paleocene-Eocene sediments
and Oligocene to Miocene volcanics and sediments. Miocene intrusives and
hypabyssal rocks, Quaternary igneous sequences (both intrusive and
extrusive), and alluvium comprise the youngest sequences.

The NE-Zamboanga Zone is mostly covered with the Quaternary Malindang
Volcanics and related lahar and alluvial deposits.

Balabag is a low sulphidation, quartz vein epithermal gold deposit with
anomalous gold values in the apical part of the system. Vein systems
appear to locally consist of closely-space individual veins varying from
a few millimeters to tens of centimeters thick.

The most significant vein systems known to date are Miswi and Tinago.
Warik-Warik corresponds to the Eastern extension of Tinago. On the other
hand, hydrothermal brecciation and tectonic hydro-fracturing indicates
depressurization accompanied by vigorous boiling and mineral
precipitation.

The Tinago vein strikes generally ENE and dips 30°- 40° to the north and
appears to be traceable through surface workings for several hundred
meters. Neither the Tinago nor the Miswi veins have been closed off
along strike. Occasional stringered to stockworked quartz veining has
been observed in the immediate walls to the veins.

The veins exhibit a en echelon pattern and tend to develop within
andesitic tuff and volcaniclastic units bordered to the north and south
by NWSE running faults showing sinistral displacement.

The vein structures which develop braiding and typical pinch and swell
within the andesites tend not to extend on either side of the faults, in
the sediments. The vein systems appear to have been locally slightly
displaced by N-S trending sub vertical faulting that would be
post-mineralization.
