---
layout: project
title: Bonanza District
---

The Bonanza District and producing mines are located in northeast
Nicaragua near the west central border of Region Autonoma Atlantica
Norte (RAAN).

The concession is located 230 air kilometers northeast of Managua and
100 air kilometers west of the Caribbean port town of Puerto Cabezas.
There are three main population centers within the concession, Bonanza,
Siuna, and Rosita, often referred to as the “mining triangle”. Land
access to the area is gained via unpaved roads from south, east and
west.

Basement rocks in northeast Nicaragua consist of an interbedded sequence
of limestone, mudstone, greywacke and calcareous mudstone (lutite) of
the Early Cretaceous Todos Santos Formation. The sedimentary rocks are
locally interbedded with andesite tuffs and flows and transected by
subvolcanic andesite sills and dikes also of Cretaceous age. These
basement rocks are intruded by a variety of fine to medium grained
diorite, granodiorite, syenite, monzonite and alaskite stocks, plugs and
dikes. Most of these intrusives occur along a northeast trend similar to
the distribution of the sedimentary rocks.

Within the concession, volcanic rocks consist of fine grained and
porphyritic andesite flows, fine grained andesite tuff, andesite
agglomerate and fine grained basalt flows assigned to the re-Matagalpa
volcanics. These rocks are widely distributed throughout northeast
Nicaragua and likely represent a nearly continuous period of subaerial
volcanic activity from the Late Cretaceous to mid-Tertiary period.

The Bonanza area is underlain by two broad, parallel, northeast trending
sequences of andesite volcanics on either side of a central sequence of
andesite agglomerate of intermediate composition. To the northeast,
these pyroclastics become more felsic in composition. These more felsic
units also occur adjacent to the andesite volcanics along the northwest
contact of the northern sequence. This area is in contact with a felsic
intrusive.

All sequences are displaced by a series of parallel to subparallel
northwest trending faults that are interpreted to have undergone both
dextral and sinistral displacement of up to 1-8 km in some faults. These
faults also truncate many of the veins and historically have been the
bounding structures for the three groups of veins.

The Siuna area is underlain by a Lower Cretaceous-aged interbedded
sedimentary-volcanic sequence comprising limestone, limy mudstone,
conglomerate, greywacke, mudstone, tuff, and andesite of the Todos
Santos Formation. Subvolcanic mafic dikes and sills have intruded the
sequence. These rocks occur in a 12 km long, 1-2 km wide arcuate belt,
which trends north-northwest in the south and northeast in the north.
The rocks are steeply dipping and tightly folded as a result of
pre-Tertiary ENE-WSW compressive forces.

The Rosita area is underlain by remnants of Cretaceous calcareous and
siliceous sediments and minor andesite volcanic flows and tuffs of the
Todos Santos Formation. These rocks are uncomfortably overlain by
Tertiary volcanics composed chiefly of andesite flows and tuffs. All of
these units have been intruded by a series of intermediate to felsic,
high level, stocks, plugs and dikes.

Two main types of mineralization occur within the district; volcanic
hosted gold-silver-copper, lead, zinc epithermal quartz veins (Bonanza,
Nueva America) and gold-copper, copper-gold and iron with gold, copper
deposits near the contact between limestone and intrusive rocks (Siuna,
Rosita).

Gold mineralization in the Bonanza district occurs in three separate
vein groups; Panama, Pioneer, and Constancia, that collectively define a
20 km long mineralized corridor. The Panama Group comprises 70 principal
veins and vein segments that have a predominant northeast strike and
subordinate northwest strike. The former have a moderate to steep
northwest dip, although several veins have a moderate to steep southeast
dip. The northwest striking veins are vertical to steeply southwest
dipping. The currently producing Bonanza Mine occurs within this group
of veins. Historic reported production is over 2 million ounces of gold
from the Panama Group, mainly from 4 principal vein systems, Neptune,
Neblina, Tesoro and Venus/Capitan. Important production was also
achieved at the Nugget, Adan, Culebra and Atlas veins. Historically,
exploration has focused on narrow high grade veins. Conditions for wide,
bulk tonnage, low-grade deposits are present, particularly at
Washington-Elefante Blanco, Capitan and possible

Orpheus. The Esperanza Vein represents the most attractive, undeveloped
narrow high grade target within the Panama Group. Potential for base
metal mineralization occurs at the deeper parts of Neblina, Venus,
Culebra and Tigre Negro veins.

There are 18 principal gold bearing quartz veins in the Pioneer Group
and 35 in the Constancia Group. Only gold was produced at the Pioneer
Group, mainly from the Pioneer mine where over 300,000 ounces were
produced from both the oxide and sulfide zones. Minor production from
other veins in the group included Lone Star, Highland Mary, and
Colorado. At the Constancia Group, base metals and gold were produced
from the Vesubio Mine from 1971 to 1979. Gold was also produced from the
Constancia Mine (Siempre Viva and Cottam veins), Real McCoy, San Antonio
and San Joaquin. There is considerable upside exploration potential for
gold mineralization within the Pioneer and 9 Constancia Groups.
Principle among them are; Pioneer, Vesubio, Real McCoy, Highland Mary
and Lone Star veins. Potential for base metal mineralization occurs at
Vesubio.

At the past producing La Luz mine in Siuna, gold occurs associated with
epidote-rich zones containing hematite, fine pyrite and chalcopyrite in
silicified limestone and limy mudstone skarn. Production of gold and
copper was from 2 ore zones; the first one occurs along the east side of
the concordant, subvolcanic Hanging Wall Andesite (HWA), and the second
orebody which is about 90 meters east of the east HWA contact. Historic
production of nearly 300,000 ounces of gold are reported from this mine.

The original Rosita deposit consisted of a central core of alaskite
which intruded the sedimentary and volcanic rocks giving rise to
garnet-epidote skarn, marble, and hornfels. These units lie along the
flanks of a larger diorite intrusive and nearby monzonite which occur
along a northwest trend. A northeast-trending shear zone, which contains
extensive brecciation and hydrothermal alteration, is believed to have
been the major conduit during ore-deposition. Copper-gold mineralization
in the Rosita area is associated with garnet bearing calcic skarn
overlain by calcareous tuffs, sediments and andesite and underlain by a
diorite intrusive. Historic production of 138,000 tonnes copper, 160,000
ounces gold and 2.6 million ounces of silver are reported from the
Rosita mine.

The combination of well mineralized ‘province’, favourable geology,
presence of mineralization in epithermal quartz veins and skarn
environments and the lack of any systematic exploration augurs well for
the potential to discover additional mineralization within the District.
