---
layout: project
title: Dadiangou
---

The Dadiangou project is located in SE Gansu Province, central China.
Liangdang County Town is 35 km directly south of the property. Xian, the
Provincial capital of Shaanxi Province, is 240 km due east and the
easiest accessible major city.

The Dadiangou Property lies within an undeveloped and uninhabited
forestry area, located in the hilly south slopes of the West Qinling
Mountain belt. Elevations within the property range from 1400 to 2200 m,
and within the drill area, from 1800 to 2000 m. It is a continental
mountain climate with temperatures from 35°C in July to -5°C in January
(with lows of -15°C at night).

There is no frost from April to October. Annual rainfall of 900 mm is
concentrated in the fall season (September – November). The property is
covered with a heavy growth of trees and smaller bushes. With numerous
valleys, the area contains many creeks and is part of a major drainage
basin of the Jialingjiang River.

The Dadiangou gold project is an advanced exploration project located on
a licensed area of 14.91 km2 in Gansu Province, China. The joint venture
parties had identified a mineral resource on the property consisting of
total 20.0 million tonnes of Indicated Resources at 0.87 grams per tonne
for 544,910 ounces of contained gold and 16.6 million tonnes of Inferred
Resources at 0.96 grams per tonne for 497,950 ounces of contained gold,
all at a 0.4 gram per tonne cut-off.

The Dadiangou project is host to orogenic (mesothermal) gold
mineralization that is currently defined over a 2,000 metre strike
length with widths of up to 80 metres. Gold mineralization at Dadiangou
has been defined by trenching and approximately 1,600 metres of
underground workings.

The deposit type is shear-zone hosted, orogenic (mesothermal) gold,
hosted by Lower Proterozoic and Lower Palaeozoic volcano-sedimentary
schists. The Dadiangou shear zone is a second order shear, parallel to
the major deep-crustal Yuanjiaping shear, part of the regional
metalliferous Qinling Belt which represents the junction between the
North and South China Cratons. Gold mineralization is strongly
associated with pyrite and mechanically fractured quartz veins occurring
within a strongly sericite altered shear zone.
