---
layout: project
title: Josemaría
subtitle: Resource Estimation
album-id: M7DOu
thumbnail-size: 2
---

The Josemaría Project is located near the northern limits of Iglesia
Department, in northern San Juan province, western Argentina
approximately 10 km from the Chilean border. The nearest settlement is
Guandacol located 200 km to the southeast by gravel road. The property
falls within the Cordillera Frontal along the eastern flank of the Andes
and is underlain by Permian-Triassic batholithic rocks correlative with
the Choiyoi Formation and Tertiary volcanics correlative with the Doña
Ana Group. These volcanics are intruded by what are believed to be
Miocene porphyries of quartz-diorite composition. Some porphyry
intrusives are obscured by later volcanic cover and unaltered volcanics
brought in contact by low angle faults truncating the top of the
mineralized intrusive.

The property is in the southern extension of the Maricunga Belt and in
the northern continuation of the El Indio belt. It is currently being
explored for porphyry copper-molybdenum-gold systems. Prospective
features indicative of a Maricunga-style Cu-Mo-Au enriched porphyry
system have been identified on the property. The Maricunga belt is an
important Cu-Au district in northern Chile containing the deposits of
Refugio, Aldebaran, Escondida, Lobo, Marte and La Coipa among others.
Surface sampling, ground magnetic data, and IP-resistivity during the
2002/2003 season established an area of approximately 400 m x 400 m with
coincident Cu-Mo-Au geochemistry. Ten RC holes (3,475 m) completed
during the 2003/2004 season were responsible for the original discovery
of the Josemaria porphyry deposit.

Josemaría is adjacent to Batidero, which together form part of an
emerging trend of prospective porphyry and epithermal systems. The
Batidero prospect and the Josemaría system of intrusives appear to
follow a WNW – ESE trend.

The overall estimated inferred resources for Josemaria (as of 2007) at a
0.30% Cu cutoff is estimated to be 460 million tonnes with a grade of
0.39% Total Cu and 0.30 g/t Au.
