---
layout: project
title: Kings Valley Lithium 
subtitle: Resource Estimation
---

The Kings Valley project is located in Humboldt County, Nevada, USA
approximately 100 km N-NW of Winnemucca. There are five areas of lithium
mineralization. These five areas are covered by approximately 2,500
federal unpatented claims over an area of approximately 15,233 hectares.
The Project has been the subject of various early stage exploration
programs.

The project is situated within the south end of the McDermitt caldera
and it lies within a well-preserved Miocene collapse structure in
northwestern Nevada near the southern Oregon border. The lithium
deposits occur within sedimentary and volcano-sedimentary rocks in the
moat of a resurgent caldera. The extent and nature of the host rocks is
well documented and understood. Several lenses of mineralization have
been identified in this region, though the focus of the Project is on
the southern Stage I and Stage II Lenses.

The Stage I Lens is the southernmost and smallest of the mineralized
lenses in the area. The lens is composed of an approximately 3 to 5 m
thick layer of alluvium underlain by lithium-enriched interbedded
claystones, ash-rich clays and ash layers up to 60 to 90 m thick in the
northwest and southwest ends of the Project area. These claystone-ash
layers thin in the middle of proposed potential, pit coinciding with
faulting and a predominance of brown-black basalts. Interbedded basalts
occur fairly shallowly in the northwest end of the pit and are found
deeper in the southeast end. The lithium-rich beds with higher lithium
concentrations (&gt;4,000 ppm) are generally found deeper in the deposit
(below 30 m). The base of the deposit varies across the Project area
averaging between 68 to 90 m and is marked by an obvious transition to
an oxidized silicified claystone and ash layer.

Exploration drilling has resulted in identifying clay-rich sequences
with lithium concentrations exceeding those in previous studies. In the
Project area clays and clay/ashes are disseminated throughout the
deposit, but the highest lithium concentrations are broadly found
between 36 and 67 m below ground surface.

The Stage II Lens is located approximately 10 km NNW of the Stage I
Lens. The Stage II mineralized beds are comprised mainly of a dark green
claystone, at times intercalated with arkose beds; in the NE region of
the modeled area a fanglomerate body is present. Lithium-rich beds are
generally 10 to 60 m thick in most areas, and defined as interesting Li
grades as greater than 1,500 ppm. Alluvium cover is variable, ranging
from no cover at all to a maximum of about 6 m. At the Stage II Lens,
the continuity of the mineralization has been confirmed by drilling at
spacings at a nominal 200 m, with a smaller area drilled at about 40 m
line spacings.

For both the Stage I and II Lenses, mineralization consists of layered
beds of lithium-bearing clay-rich volcaniclastic sedimentary rocks. The
main lithium-bearing mineral is reported to be a magnesium clay mineral
that includes the Hectorite and Illite group. Hectorite is a rare Li-Mg
clay mineral of the smectite group. The beds exhibit very good
geological lateral continuity over kilometers, as shown by drill holes
spaced on the order of 500 m. The thickness of mineralization varies
from less than a meter to more than 90 m with typical intercepts of
about 30 m. The extent of mineralization is well known.

To date, there are no analogous deposits in operation worldwide. The
hectorite deposits at Hector, California have similar mineralogy, but
the geological setting is significantly different.

These deposits are believed to have formed by hydrothermal alteration of
layered volcaniclastic sedimentary rocks. It is not clear whether the
alteration was essentially syngenetic with deposition of the sedimentary
rocks or whether the alteration is a post depositional event.
