---
layout: project
title: Sao Francisco
subtitle: Resource Estimation
album-id: KA9gi
thumbnail-size: 2
---

The Sao Francisco Mine, located in western Mato Grosso State, Brazil, is
50 kilometres southeast of the Sao Vicente Mine, and at the center of a
historic gold-producing district.

The Sao Francisco mine is an open-pit, heap leach gold mine located in
western Mato Grosso State, Brazil, approximately 560 kilometres west of
Cuiaba, the state capital, and approximately 50 kilometres southeast of
the Sao Vicente mine in the prolific Guapore gold belt. The Sao
Francisco mine can be accessed via highway from Cuiaba, which is
serviced by several daily flights from a number of Brazilian cities. A
power line connects the Sao Francisco mine to the national grid and
water is readily available. The property consists of four contiguous
mining and exploration permits, covering approximately 16,370 hectares.

The Sao Francisco deposit is an epigenetic shear-hosted and structurally
controlled lode gold orebody, composed of one centimetre to five
centimetre wide, sericitic quartz veins containing free gold. The
orebody occurs in a hydrothermal alteration zone along the axial plane
of an anticlinal fold within the basal Fortuna Formation of a 1,200
metre-thick sequence of clastic sediments known as the Aguape√≠ Group.
Gold occurs as free gold and frequently as coarse nuggets associated
with quartz, as laminations along the fracture planes, and within
limonite boxworks after pyrite and arsenopyrite.

Modern day exploration at the Sao Francisco mine has occurred
periodically since 1990. Exploration activities conducted during this
period included diamond drilling, reverse circulation drilling,
metallurgical testing and bulk sampling.
