---
layout: project
title: Collahuasi
---

(Source: http://www.mining-technology.com/projects/collahuasi)

![Colla\_EW\_plant.jpg](media/image01.jpg){width="5.208333333333333in"
height="3.1666666666666665in"}

Collahuasi copper mine is situated in northern Chile, about 180km
southeast of the port of Iquique, at an altitude of 4,000m. The The mine
is 44%-owned by Xstrata plc (following its acquisition of Falconbridge
Ltd in 2006) in joint venture with Anglo American (44%) and a Japanese
consortium (12%) comprising Japan Collahuasi Resources BV, Mitsui & Co.
Ltd., Nippon Mining & Metals Co. Ltd. and Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co.
Ltd. The operating company is Cia. Minera Doña Ines de Collahuasi.

Lying in an area of historical copper mining, the deposit was outlined
in 1991 after exploration by Shell, Chevron and Falconbridge in the late
1980s. The mine was commissioned in April 1999 at a cost of US\$1.76bn.
During 2004, the project partners completed a \$584m expansion programme
at the mine, giving it a long-term capacity of 500,000t/yr of copper.

**Geology and reserves**

Collahuasi is a typical low-grade copper porphyry, comprising three ore
zones: the major Ujina and Rosario deposits consisting of secondary,
enriched sulphides and oxides and the Huinquintipa oxide deposit.

The major ore minerals are chalcocite, chalcopyrite and bornite. Oxide
mineralisation occurs mainly as chrysocolla with minor brochantite,
native copper, and copper-iron-manganese oxides and hydroxides.

The Ujina and Huinquintipa zones were mined first, with a transition to
the Rosario orebody completed during 2004. Stripping at Rosario began in
2002. The stripping ratio at Ujina averages 4.4:1 (waste: ore) with a
15m bench height. Huinquintipa is somewhat smaller. The design mining
rate of 360,000t/d of rock was achieved in Year 1, involving the
blasting of 750,000t of material every two days.

Equipment used at Collahuasi includes five Bucyrus-Erie 49R III electric
drills and a Drilltech T60KL diesel drill, 40 Komatsu 830E haul trucks
and five Bucyrus-Erie 495BI electric rope shovels. Two Krupp
Fördertechnik 6,000t/hr semi-mobile crushing plants, one used in each
pit initially, provide substantial in-pit haulage cost savings.

In 2008, Xstrata Copper announced a 28% increase in the total estimated
mineral resource at the mine, representing the equivalent of an
additional 11 million tons of contained copper metal from 2007
resources.

The processing area consists of both oxide and sulphide plants. Oxide
and mixed ores are treated by heap-leaching, solvent-extraction and
electro-winning (SX-EW). Sulphide ore is crushed, ground and treated by
flotation.

Run-of-mine sulphide ore enters the primary gyratory crusher prior to
transport to two parallel grinding circuits, each consisting of a SAG
mill and a ball mill. Secondary closed circuit grinding includes cyclone
classifiers, from which the overflow feeds the flotation circuit.
Flotation concentrate is thickened to 50% solids for slurry transport in
a 200km-long pipeline to Punta Patache, 65km south of Iquique, where it
is thickened and filtered before shipment worldwide. An expansion to the
concentrator was completed during 2004.

Run-of-mine oxide ore is reduced to -10mm by three-stage crushing. The
fine ore is agglomerated with sulphuric acid and water before being
conveyed to the leach pads. Copper is recovered from the pregnant leach
solution in the solvent-extraction plant, where the copper is stripped
using organic solutions; the stripped liquor is then returned to the
leach pads for re-use.

The strip solution is cleaned using dilute acid and flotation, and is
filtered prior to the electro-winning phase, where the copper is plated
onto electrolysis cathodes. These are stripped by the Kidd process on a
seven-day cycle, the cathode copper being transported by road to Iquique
for export.

In 2005, Cia Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi produced 488,600t of copper
in concentrate, plus 68,600t of cathode copper. In December 2005, the
company commissioned a US\$36m molybdenum recovery plant that has a
capacity of 7,500t/y of contained moly.

In January 2008, the company announced an upgraded mineral resource of
5.19 bn tons at an average grade of 0.83% copper, including, for the
first time, 746 m tons at a grade of 1.06% from the Rosario Oeste
deposit.

As the environment at Collahuasi is harsh and fragile, ecological issues
have a top priority. Collahuasi is a zero-discharge operation, with much
of its water being recycled. An extensive environmental monitoring
system is in place along with research projects in high altitude
operations. Collahuasi achieved its ISO 14001 environmental management
certification in 2000.
