---
layout: project
title: Piedras Verdes
---
(Source:
http://cobredelmayo.com/corporate/project-description/default.aspx)

![Piedras-Verdes-1.jpg](media/image01.jpg){width="6.5in"
height="4.319444444444445in"}

Cobre Del Mayo controls a portfolio of 30 titled mining concessions
encompassing an area of \~57k hectares, including one recently acquired
titled concession covering \~52k hectares. CDM has fully paid all claim
license fees and taxes both for concessions owned and otherwise under
its control. CDM owns 25 of the 30 concessions, the other 5 concessions
are owned by Grupo Rexgo, S.A. de C.V. (“GR”). CDM exploits the
concessions it does not own pursuant to an agreement between CDM and GR
executed in March 1997.

The PV Mine utilizes conventional truck and shovel mining methods. Three
alternative process options are utilized for copper recovery:

I.  ROM heap leach;

II. Crushed ore heap leach; and

III. Crushing, grinding, and froth flotation.

Copper is produced as LME Grade A cathode from the SX/EW process and in
concentrate from the flotation plant.

Ore is mined using conventional open pit methods, 24 hours per day, 365
days per year. Mining follows a traditional drill, blast, load haul dump
sequence of mining. Ore and waste are hauled out of the pit. Currently
waste is hauled to dumps located north and northeast of the current pit
configuration. These dump areas will continue to be active for the
foreseeable future. As areas within the pit footprint are depleted,
waste material will be backhauled and placed within in-pit dumps. Ore
material is hauled to selected areas depending on its grade and physical
characteristics. Lower grade oxides and supergene material is hauled
directly to the ROM leach area where it is stacked in 5m high lifts
prior to irrigation. Higher grade oxides and supergene material is
hauled to the primary crusher or stockpiled depending on daily grade and
alteration constraints.

The PV Mine is located in Sonora, one of Mexico’s safest states with a
long history of copper mining. Sonora also represents Mexico’s most
important state in terms of mining production and in particular, copper
production. Piedras Verdes is the third largest copper mine in Sonora
and in Mexico. The PV Mine is located 20 km from the town of Álamos
(population 9,000), and 50 km from the town of Navojoa (population
160,000).

Piedras Verdes is an elongated porphyry copper deposit that, based on
exploration to date, is 5 km long in an east-west direction and over 1
km wide in a north-south direction. Mineralization is predominantly
within Triassic-Jurassic metasedimentary units and various intrusives
phases of the batholithic scale, granodiorite to quartz monzonite
intrusives and an aphanitic, porphyrytic quartz feldspar porphyry.
Supergene copper mineralization is present as azurite, neotocite,
chrysocolla, native copper cuprite and chalcocite. Hypogene copper
mineralization consists of chalcocite, chalcopyrite and bornite as the
main copper minerals.

Major northwest trending dextral strike slip shear zones and northwest
trending sinestral strike slip shear zones control the emplacement of
the deposit. Younger north striking normal fault zones cut across the
deposit and have had repeated movements. The latest displacements on
some faults occurred subsequent to supergene enrichment. A leached and
oxidized cap demarcates the surface expression of the deposit with a
characteristic reddish-brown color caused by iron oxides.

Two types of hypogene alteration styles host copper mineralization in
the Piedras Verdes copper porphyry deposit. Potassic alteration is the
earliest copper-mineralizing event. This style of alteration is
indicated by the presence of secondary biotite and potassium feldspar.
Disseminated chalcopyrite and bornite constitute the most abundant
copper minerals in this alteration type. Potassic alteration is hosted
in the batholithic intrusive rocks, metasediments and quartz feldspar
porphyry.

The second, cross cutting, copper bearing alteration event is defined by
sericitic-illite-chalcocite alteration. This alteration type also cross
cuts all earlier alteration styles including potassic alteration.
Sericite-illite-chalcocite alteration ranges from incipient to intense,
with the intense phases resulting in complete destruction of the host
lithology. Chalcocite occurs as disseminations, coatings on fractures,
and veinlets. In hand samples of potassic altered rocks that have been
overprinted by the sericite-illite-chalcocite mineralization, chalcocite
is seen rimming existing sulfides such as chalcopyrite and pyrite.

Oxidation of hypogene and secondary sulphides generated supergene
chalcocite, chrysocolla, neotocite/tenorite, limonite copper
mineralization, cuprite, native copper and minor amounts of malachite,
brochantite, libethenite, and azurite. The mineralization model
generated for the resource estimate utilized three different
mineralization categories, oxide, secondary and hypogene. The oxide
category is modeled on the complete absence of copper sulfide minerals
as logged in the core and reverse circulation drill holes. The secondary
category is the occurrence both supergene and hypogene chalcocite, the
hypogene mineralization category is indicated by the presence of
chalcopyrite as the primary copper bearing mineral.

Secondary copper mineralization at Piedras Verdes shows the effects of
in-situ oxidation, as well as leaching and supergene enrichment. More
than one episode of leaching is indicated. Following early episodes of
oxidation and enrichment, there was considerable remobilization of
copper, both vertically and laterally, along faults.
