---
layout: project
title: Antapaccay
---

The Antapaccay copper mine is located in the Yauri district of Espinar
Province, southern Peru, at 4,100 metres above sea level.

Xstrata acquired the Tintaya open pit mine, comprising of the Antapaccay
and the Coroccohuayco deposits, from BHP Billiton in 2006. The
Antapaccay deposit is situated approximately 10km from the Tintaya
mine.

Commercial copper production at Antapaccay started in November 2012 and
the first shipment was made to Matarani Port for export.

Annual copper production from the mine is expected to be 160,000 tonnes
in concentrate form. The mine also produces gold and silver by-product
credits. The expected mine life is 20 years.

The Antapaccay copper mine is a part of the Tintaya district, which is
filled with Cretaceous sedimentary rocks and monzonitic plutons. The
rocks contain copper bearing minerals, such as the bornite,
chalcopyrite, chalcocite and copper oxides.

Antapaccay consists of a sulphide mineralised system with limestone
filled rocks containing chalcopyrite and bornite in altered
quartz-monzonite and diorite form. The upper part of the deposit is made
up of mineralised exoskarn areas, copper carbonates and copper oxides.

Antapaccay's JORC-compliant ore reserves for the year ending 2011-12 are
541 million tonnes (Mt) at 0.59% copper, 0.13% gold and 1.51% silver.

The mine consists of two pit operations and a concentrator plant. The
concentrator plant, which consists of a semi-autogenous grinding (SAG)
mill and two ball mills, can process 70,000 tonnes of copper sulphide
ore per day using crushing and rotation.

Concentrate is thickened and filtered at the mine before trucking it to
the port for export. Flotation tailings are sent to the tailings
thickening plant using the gravity flow.

The construction of Antapaccay mine created approximately 4,250 jobs. It
is also created approximately 1,400 permanent jobs.

Antapaccay will use existing infrastructure at the in-operative Tintaya
mine. The shared infrastructure will include the fuel tanks and
refuelling system, drinking water supply, office and buildings and
mining trucks and shovels. The Tintaya open pit mine will also be used
as a tailings storage facility for Antapaccay.
