---
layout: project
title: Sabodala
subtitle: Resource Estimation
---

Sabodala is located in Senegal, some 650 km east of the capital Dakar.
The project contains two deposits – Sabodala and Niakafiri – which lie
in a granted 20km² mining concession. The project is 90% owned through
MDL's operating company Sabodala Gold Operations SA, 10% by the
Government of the Republic of Senegal.

The Sabodala and Niakafiri gold deposits are situated in the Mako Mafic
Volcanic Belt and lie within the west Birimian gold province, which is
host to some of the world's largest gold deposits.

Sabodala is sited on a small hill of unweathered metabasalts. Locally,
the volcanics are intruded by subvolcanic dolerite and gabbro sills and
dykes, as well as quartz-feldspar porphyry and unfoliated rhyolite
dykes. The gold mineralisation is associated with quartz, sericite,
ankerite/siderite veining and orange-coloured
silica-albite-carbonate-pyrite alteration. The main sulphide mineral is
pyrite, although free gold does occur.

The Niakafiri deposit, about 3km south of Sabodala, is interpreted to be
a westerly-dipping shear-hosted mineralised system. Underlying rock
types comprise structurally modified and sheared mafic and ultramafic
volcanics and, in both the oxide and primary zone, fuchsite alteration
is common. The bulk of the mineralisation at Niakafiri is controlled by
the main shear foliation, with most of the mineralisation hosted within
the pyritic alteration zones.

As of 2009, proven plus probable mineral reserves for the two deposits
total 18.3Mt, grading 2.39g/t for 1.4Moz of contained gold. Of these
total reserves, the mineable (diluted) reserve for the Sabodala deposit
is an estimated 15.8Mt at an average grade of 2.49g/t for 1,264,000oz at
a 0.8g/t cut-off grade, while the mineable open-pit reserve estimate for
the Niakafiri deposit is 2.5Mt grading 1.76g/t for 142,000oz at a 0.5g/t
cut-off.

MDL also estimates that potential underground zones beneath the 210m pit
bottom contain 1.7Mt of undiluted measured and indicated resources
averaging 4.7g/t above a 3g/t cut-off grade. Collectively, these zones
are estimated to contain about 265,000oz, warranting the evaluation of
underground mining options.

The deposits will be mined by conventional open-pit methods. Ore mining
was scheduled to start in June 2008 with a target of 500,000t of ore to
be placed on the pad prior to mill start-up by the September 2008
quarter. The mine is expected to produce about 150,000oz of gold
annually over its scheduled ten-year life.
