---
layout: project
title: Chaarat
subtitle: Resource Estimation
---

The Chaarat Property is located at latitude 42°1’12” N and longitude
71°9’84” E in the Sandalash Range of the Alatau Mountains in the Chatkal
district of the Jalal Abad oblast (province) of western Kyrgyzstan,
close to the border with Uzbekistan and approximately 327km southwest of
the Kyrgyzstan capital, Bishkek.

From Bishkek, the Chaarat Property is accessible by a combination of 520
km of paved and unpaved roads, of which 185 km are gravel. Travel time
from the capital city to the Chaarat camp is in the order of 10 to 12
hours via the northern road which is closed between the end of October
and early June. There is an alternative southern access into the Chatkal
valley through the town of Jany-Bazar at the intersection of the Chatkal
River and the Sandalash River. From the national road a dedicated 25 km
road leads to the site over a mountain pass at 3,250 metres.

The Chaarat Project is located in a mountainous area along the Sandalash
River valley, on the western border of the Kyrgyz Republic. The valley
marks the north-easterly trending hinge zone of an anticline, the
north-western limb of which consists of a sequence of Upper Proterozoic
and Cambrian-Ordovician siliciclastic rocks - the Chaarat formation,
which dips at around 400 northwest. The formation comprises greywacke,
sandstone with siltstone, shale, rhythmically bedded siltstone and black
shale with limestone lenses and an upper tillite.

This stratigraphy is disrupted by several NE-SW trending oblique-slip
faults and by a major thrust dislocation which brings the Devonian age
Tulkubash Formation quartzites and Carboniferous age carbonate rocks
into contact with the Chaarat formation, some 500 to 600 metres above
the Sandalash River. The siltstones show an irregular axial planar
fabric that locally becomes intense.

Permian-Triassic age syenite and diorite have intruded along many of the
faults. Other intrusive rocks includes small cross cutting granites
bodies and post tectonic mafic dykes. The diorite dykes seem to be
closely related to mineralization and in some areas their contacts are
mineralised. Skarn mineralogy, pyroxene and garnet, is locally present
along the diorite contacts.

The mineralised zones exhibit pervasive sericitic alteration with lesser
amounts of quartz, ankerite and calcite gangue. There is limited
oxidation near surface and arsenopyrite and stibnite are locally visible
in surface outcrops. In some areas, antimony (Sb) and silver are
significant constituents of mineralisation, the latter particularly in
the Contact Zone (about 21 g/t Ag average) and in M7000 (Karator).
Antimony, in stibnite and various sulfosalts, can locally reach values
of 10% or more over one to two metre thick zones. Copper and Molybdenum
are rarely significant constituents of the mineralisation.
