---
layout: project
title: Olympic Dam
---

The Olympic Dam is a huge mining centre located in South Australia, 560
km north-west of Adelaide. Home to a major oxide copper gold deposit
producing copper, uranium, gold and silver, the site hosts an
underground mine and an integrated metallurgical processing plant.

The project was opened in 1988 by WMC Resources, after discovering the
large deposit in 1975. It was later expanded under a A\$1.9 million
programme, raising its capacity to 200,000tpa of copper and 4,300tpa of
uranium, plus gold and silver.

In mid-2005, BHP Billiton gained control of WMC Resources in an A\$9.2bn
takeover. The company has a licence to mine the Olympic Dam until 2036
and it is extendable for 50 more years thereafter.

The deposit occurs in the basement rocks of the Stuart Shelf geological
province in the north of South Australia, west of Lake Torrens.

Mineralisation consists of medium-grained chalcopyrite, bornite and
chalcocite, fine-grained disseminated pitchblende, gold, silver and rare
earth minerals that occur in a magnetic hydrothermal breccia complex
beneath 350m of overburden. The ore occurs in distinct zones that
determine the mine access and layout.

Proven reserves at the Olympic Dam mine as of June 2011 stand at 146Mt
graded at 1.98% Cu, 0.58kg/t U3O8, 0.69g/t Au and 4.01g/t Ag. Probable
reserves are estimated to be 406Mt graded at 1.79% Cu, 0.57kg/t U3O8,
0.78g/t Au and 3.19g/t Ag.

Measured resources at the mine as of June 2011 are estimated at 1,408Mt
graded at 1.08% Cu, 0.32kg/t U3O8, 0.34g/t Au and 2.07g/t Ag. Indicated
resources stand at 4,571Mt graded at 0.88% Cu, 0.28kg/t U~3~O~8~,
0.34g/t Au and 1.56g/t Ag.

Three vertical shafts and a decline access the orebody, which is worked
using a variation of sublevel open stoping. Each stope may contain
300,000t of ore. Drill drives are driven on the stope centre line and
blastholes drilled in vertical rings. These are charged with ANFO and
detonated with shock tube detonators.

The drilling fleet comprises Atlas Copco and Tamrock production rigs,
with development being carried out using two Tamrock (now Sandvik)
jumbos. Atlas Copco has supplied two modified Simba H4356S production
drilling rigs.

Stopes are backfilled with cemented aggregate of crushed 'mullock'
(waste rock), deslimed mill tailings, cement and pulverised fuel ash
(PFA). Automation has done much to reduce production costs at Olympic
Dam. Innovations include the automated underground haulage system and
the 'smart' loader, a robotics-driven, decision-making underground ore
carrier.

Processing facilities consist of a copper concentrator,
hydrometallurgical plant, copper smelter, sulphuric acid plant, copper
and gold/silver refineries. Recent expansions included a Svedala
autogenous mill, additions to the flotation sections, two
counter-current decantation thickeners, an electric slag-cleaning
furnace, a new anode furnace gas-cleaning plant and additional
electro-refining cells.

Copper is recovered primarily by copper sulphide flotation from slurry
before the copper concentrate is smelted and electro-refined to
high-purity copper.

Wastes generated during electro-refining are treated to recover gold and
silver. After treatment by flotation, the finely-crushed ore is leached
with sulphuric acid to dissolve uranium and any remaining copper. The
leach liquor is processed in the solvent extraction plant to separate
the residual copper and uranium streams. Copper is recovered by
electrowinning and uranium converted to yellowcake and calcined uranium
oxide.

Installation of two pulsed columns increased uranium recovery from
solution from 90% to about 97%. These columns use an air pulse to mix
the acidic and organic solutions, providing better contact for the
chemical reaction involved in transferring the uranium from one to the
other.

Copper cathode sheets are transported by truck within Australia and to
Port Adelaide for export. All uranium oxide produced at Olympic Dam is
exported. The gold plant became fully operational in 2000. The Olympic
Dam mine produced 194,100t of copper, 4,045t of uranium oxide, 111,368oz
of refined gold and 982,000oz of refined silver in 2011.
