---
layout: project
title: Bajo de la Alumbrera 
subtitle: Resource Audits
album-id: GcGOD
thumbnail-size: 2
---

The Bajo de la Alumbrera (Alumbrera) copper-gold mine in Argentina is
owned and operated by Minera Alumbrera (MAA). It commenced commercial
operation in February 1998. The mine is located in Catamarca province,
1,100km north west of Buenos Aires at an altitude of 2,500m.

The Argentine state- and provincially-owned mining company, Yacimientos
Mineros de Agua de Dionisio (YMAD), which has the title to the deposit,
awarded an international tender for the Alumbrera concession to
International Musto Exploration in 1992. Minera Alumbrera was formed in
1994 when MIM Holdings bought a 50% operating interest. During 1995,
North Ltd and Rio Algom acquired shares in International Musto and each
took a 25% holding in MAA. Pre-production capital expenditure totalled
\$1.2bn and capital expenditures in the 1998 and 1999 financial years
were \$198m and \$17m respectively. Royalty payments to Catamarca
province commenced in 1998. YMAD will start earning 20% of the net
proceeds (before tax) once project capital plus interest has been
repaid.

In 2003, three years after Rio Tinto acquired North Ltd and Billiton
(now BHP Billiton) bought Rio Algom, the two companies sold their
holdings to the Canadian company, Wheaton River Minerals, while MIM was
acquired by Xstrata. In 2005 Xstrata opened an office in Chile,
initially to manage both Alumbrera and the company's Las Bambas copper
project in Peru.

The Bajo de la Alumbrera deposit is a classic copper-gold porphyry.
Porphyritic dacite intrudes volcanic andesite, chalcopyrite being the
main copper mineral. Near-surface weathered material overlies primary
sulphide. By June 2009 the mine's reserve base totalled 338Mt proven
grading 0.4% copper, 0.39g/t gold and 0.013% Molybdenum. plus 10Mt
probable ore reserves grading 0.33% copper, 0.3g/t gold and 0.015%
Molybdenum.

The mining area measures 1.8km by 1.8km. Pre-stripping involved the
removal of only 25Mt and the initial strip ratio was 1.4:1.

Mining is conventional: drilling with five large machines and blasting
and loading by three Bucyrus 495-B shovels with 43m³ buckets; haulage by
50 Caterpillar 218t-capacity trucks; and support from two LeTourneau
L-1800 electric drive wheeled loaders. Four new haul trucks arrived in
2004.

The concentrator was initially designed to treat 80,000 to 85,000t/d,
yielding 700,000t/y of copper concentrate. Design recovery rates were
91% for copper and 70% for gold.

Run-of-mine ore is handled in an 8,400t/h Svedala gyratory crusher,
which feeds a coarse ore stockpile. Two SAG and two ball mills – also
supplied by Svedala – supply ore via sizing hydrocyclones to either the
free gold, gravity separation doré metal system, or to the flotation
section. The latter comprises 100m³ of rougher cells, a regrinding mill,
and Jameson cell cleaner and scavenger flotation.

During 2001–02, the concentrator capacity was expanded by 30% to
maintain metal-in-concentrate output at 190,000t/y of copper and
600,000oz/y of gold. A pebble crushing circuit and additional grinding
capacity were installed.

In 2004, MAA commissioned a third flotation circuit, and in 2005,
Xstrata Copper announced a \$15.5m expansion to raise the plant’s
capacity from 37Mt/y to 40Mt/y in orde to make full use of the Tucuman
filtration plant at Cruz del Norte. Concentrates are pipelined 316km
after thickening to 63% solids to the Cruz del Norte plant. After
de-watering by Larox pressure filters, it is railed to Puerta Alumbrera,
constructed by Krupp Fördertechnik, on the Parana River. The expansion
was commissioned in November 2006, 35 days ahead of the original
schedule.

A project to set up a new molybdenum flotation plant was approved in
July 2006. Construction was completed in the last quarter of 2007 at a
cost of \$16m. Set up besides the existing Alumbrera concentrator, the
plant produced its first molybdenum concentrate in the first quarter of
2008.

Commissioning of the new molybdenum plant took place in 2008. By the end
of 2008, the plant produced 450t of molybdenum. In July 2009, a new
flotation circuit was commissioned.

Mining consistently reached target rates in the second quarter of 1999.
During calendar 2008 Alumbrera produced 28Mt of ore, grading an average
of 0.50% copper and 0.55g/t gold.. The operation treated 37Mt of ore to
produce 156,893t of copper-in-concentrates, plus a total of 60,484oz of
gold in doré and 443,919oz in concentrate. More than 50% of the
concentrate is sold on long-term contracts, while doré is refined in the
USA.
