---
layout: project
title: Antamina
---

The Antamina copper-zinc mine is located in the Andes Mountains of Peru,
approximately 285km north of Lima in the Department of Ancash. The
elevation of the mine is 4,300m above sea level.

The Quechua word «anta» means copper and gave birth to the name
“Antamina”, or copper mine.

In 1860, the Italian sage Antonio Raimondi, documented the properties of
the Antamina ore deposit in his emblematic work entitled *El Perú*,
published in six volumes between 1874 and 1913. The ore deposit site was
forgotten for decades and it was not until 1952 when Antamina was
incorporated into the mining project exploration portfolio of the Cerro
de Pasco Mining Company.

During the 1970’s Antamina was transferred to the Government and stayed
there until 1996. That year, following a privatization process, the site
was acquired by Canadian mining companies Rio Algom and Inmet. These
companies founded a subsidiary, Compañía Minera Antamina S.A. The mine
was brought into production by a joint venture comprising the Canadian
companies, Noranda Inc (33.75%) and TeckCominco Ltd. (22.5%),
Australian-UK-based BHP Billiton (33.75%) and the Japanese firm,
Mitsubishi Corp. (10.0%). The subsequent merger between Noranda and its
subsidiary, Falconbridge, and the acquisition of Falconbridge during
2006 by Xstrata brought Noranda's holding into Xstrata's portfolio.

During the mid-1990s, the Antamina deposit was considered to be the
largest undeveloped copper/zinc orebody in the world.

Construction began following the completion of a feasibility study in
1998. Following construction of the concentrator and other
infrastructure, trial operations started on May 28, 2001 while
pre-production stripping of overburden occurred (around 161Mt of waste
was moved during 2001 alone), the mine was commissioned in December
2001, under budget and ahead of schedule. First commercial production
was on October 1st, 2002, selling copper and zinc concentrate and other
by-products.

Antamina is a polymetallic skarn orebody with a regional structural
trend parallel to the Andean Cordillera Trend. Major geological faulting
and associated jointing was intruded by a multi-phased quartz-monzonite
porphyry about 9.8Ma, resulting in a large area of intrusives being in
contact with the older Jumasha limestone Formation.

The calcic skarn thus produced was mineralised by extensive hydrothermal
solutions, forming at least six distinctive ore zones. Adjacent to the
limestone contact, copper occurs mainly as chalcopyrite. Zinc and
bismuth occur in any rock type but are generally found in the green
garnet contacts with limestone, marble and hornfels, where lead is also
present. Molybdenum is present in the intrusive core, with silver found
in any of the skarn lithologies, associated with both ore types, while
copper ore also contains molybdenum.

As of January 2010, proven reserves at Antamina stand at 100Mt graded at
1.14% copper, 0.17% zinc, 8.7g/t silver and 0.036% molybdenum. Proven
reserves of copper-zinc ore are 42Mt graded at 0.99% Cu, 2.30% Zn,
19.5g/t Ag and 0.009% Mo.

Probable Reserves of copper ore are 454mt at 1.05% copper, 0.17% zinc,
9.7g/t silver and 0.031% Molybdenum. Probable Reserves of Zinc ore as of
January 2010 stand at 149mt graded at 1.05% Cu, 2.07% Zn, 17.9g/t Ag and
0.008% Mo.

Measured, indicated and inferred resources during the same time stood at
130Mt, 581Mt and 489Mt, respectively.
