---
layout: project
title: Zafranal
---
(Source: Internal Technical Report, September 2015)

![zaf1.jpg](media/image01.jpg){width="6.5in"
height="3.0277777777777777in"}

The Property is located in southern Perú about 150 km by road (90 km
straight-line distance) northwest of the city of Arequipa on the border
between the District of Huancarqui in the Province of Castilla and the
District of Lluta in the Province of Caylloma. The approximate centre of
the Property is located at 16°02’ 28” south latitude and 72°14’ 19” west
longitude (Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) 18S 794000E/8224000N
using the World Geodetic System (WGS) (WGS84). The Property contains
several areas of porphyry-style copper mineralization, of which the two
main areas are Zafranal Main and Victoria.

The nearest major centre is Arequipa which is serviced by scheduled
flights and is the major supply center for regional mining activity.
Approximately 85 km of the estimated 150 km of road between Arequipa and
the Property is paved, which includes a section of the Pan-American
Highway. The last 65 km is gravel, of which 15 km is via private access
road constructed to access the Property.

The regional climate is dry, with temperatures ranging between about
12°C in winter and 28°C in summer. Precipitation is scarce and
agriculture generally possible only in river valleys with accessible
irrigation. The Property is located outside zones of agricultural
activity and there are no communities located on the Property.
Characteristic vegetation is comprised generally of scarce grasses,
cacti and shrubs. Valley bottoms within the Property are typically
filled with active alluvium and are bare of vegetation.

The mineral potential of the Main Zone deposit was initially discovered
by artisanal small-scale miners working the narrow gold veins in the
nearby batholith formation. Through their exploration of the area, they
became aware of surface exposures of copper mineralization and in 2003
brought this mineralization to the attention of Teck geologists who were
conducting regional exploration for porphyry deposits. The Zafranal Main
Zone was immediately staked by Teck. Currently, activity continues on
the periphery of the Zafranal porphyry systems where artisanal miners
are allowed to actively mine auriferous quartz veins.

Bedrock within the Property area includes Jurassic volcaniclastic and
sedimentary rocks, Cretaceous granodiorite and Paleocene to late
Cenozoic diorite intrusives and dikes. Most of these units have been
deformed by regional-scale and local shear zones, often resulting in
schistose and gneissose textures. The mineral zones of interest are
Zafranal Main and Victoria, which have similar bedrock geology but
correspond to different structural blocks.
